# :lock: **Important Notice**
Starting with Container Storage Modules `v1.16.0`, this repository will transition to a closed-source model.<br>
* The current version remains open source and will continue to be available under the existing license.
* Customers will continue to receive access to enhanced features, timely updates, and official support through our commercial offerings.
* We remain committed to the open-source community - users engaging through Dell community channels will continue to receive guidance and support via Dell Support.

We sincerely appreciate the support and contributions from the community over the years.<br>
For access requests or inquiries, please contact the maintainers directly at [Dell Support](https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-in/000188046/container-storage-interface-csi-drivers-and-container-storage-modules-csm-how-to-get-support).

# :lock: **Important Notice**
Starting with Container Storage Modules `v1.16.0`, this repository will transition to a closed-source model.<br>
* The current version remains open source and will continue to be available under the existing license.
* Customers will continue to receive access to enhanced features, timely updates, and official support through our commercial offerings.
* We remain committed to the open-source community - users engaging through Dell community channels will continue to receive guidance and support via Dell Support.

We sincerely appreciate the support and contributions from the community over the years.<br>
For access requests or inquiries, please contact the maintainers directly at [Dell Support](https://www.dell.com/support/kbdoc/en-in/000188046/container-storage-interface-csi-drivers-and-container-storage-modules-csm-how-to-get-support)

# GoIsilon

## Overview

GoIsilon is a Go package that provides a client for the EMC Isilon OneFS HTTP
API. The package provides both direct implementations of the API bindings as
well as abstract, helper functionality. In addition, services such as Docker,
Mesos, and [REX-Ray](http://rexray.readthedocs.io/) use the GoIsilon package
to integrate with the NAS storage platform.

## OneFS API Support Matrix

The GoIsilon package is tested with and supports OneFS 8.1+.

## Examples

The tests provide working examples for how to use the package, but here are
a few code snippets to further illustrate the basic ideas:

### Initialize a new client

This example shows how to initialize a new client.

```go
client, err := NewClient(context.Background())
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
```

Please note that there is  no attempt to provide a host, credentials, or any
other options. The `NewClient()` function relies on the following environment
variables to configure the GoIsilon client:

#### Environment Variables

Name | Description
---- | -----------
`GOISILON_ENDPOINT`   | the API endpoint, ex. `https://172.17.177.230:8080`
`GOISILON_USERNAME`   | the username
`GOISILON_GROUP`      | the user's group
`GOISILON_PASSWORD`   | the password
`GOISILON_INSECURE`   | whether to skip SSL validation
`GOISILON_VOLUMEPATH` | which base path to use when looking for volume directories
`GOISILON_VOLUMEPATH_PERMISSIONS` | permissions for new volume directory
`GOISILON_AUTHTYPE` | what should be the auth type, session-based or basic

### Initialize a new client with options

The following example demonstrates how to explicitly specify options when
creating a client:

```go
client, err := NewClientWithArgs(
	context.Background(),
	"https://172.17.177.230:8080",
	true,
	1,
	"userName",
	"groupName",
	"password",
	"/ifs/volumes",
	"0777",
	0)
if err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
```

### Create a Volume

This snippet creates a new volume named "testing" at "/ifs/volumes/testing".
The volume path is generated by concatenating the client's volume path and the
name of the volume.

```go
volume, err := c.CreateVolume(context.Background(), "testing")
```

### Export a Volume

Enabling a volume for NFS access is fairly straight-forward.

```go
if err := c.ExportVolume(context.Background(), "testing"); err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
```

### Delete a Volume

When a volume is no longer needed, this is how it may be removed.

```go
if err := c.DeleteVolume(context.Background(), "testing"); err != nil {
	panic(err)
}
```

### More Examples

Several, very detailed examples of the GoIsilon package in use can be found in
the package's `*_test.go` files as well as in the libStorage Isilon
[storage driver](https://github.com/rexray/rexray/blob/master/libstorage/drivers/storage/isilon/storage/isilon_storage.go).

## Contributions

Please contribute!

## Licensing

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the “License”); you may not use
this file except in compliance with the License. You may obtain a copy of the
License at <http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0>

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software distributed
under the License is distributed on an “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR
CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the License for the
specific language governing permissions and limitations under the License.

## Support

For any issues, questions or feedback, please follow our [support process](https://github.com/dell/csm/blob/main/docs/SUPPORT.md)
